All right.
Well, I am super excited
to be back here this week.
And excited to see everybody here.
And so we have recently  started a series
a couple weeks ago  called Shalom Shalom
which if you begin to study a little bit
about Shalom, Shalom, it's perfect peace.
So we've been talking about
God's perfect peace in the
midst of our mental struggles.
We've learned that as we begin to just
look in society and as we realize as well
just in our world as a church  that people
are struggling, including myself with.
These mental struggles of anxiety,
depression, burnout, worry, you name it.
And so whenever we begin to just pray and
seek the Lord on some se sermon series
that we could begin to preach on and, and
talk about  this is one that came up and
I could not get it off my heart and mind.
And  as, as that came to the, the point
I just realized, okay, then that must be
the reason why we need to talk about it.
And so that's really what I, I'm saying
throughout this whole series is, okay,
if it is an issue in our community,
in our society, in our church, in our
lives, then why not talk about it?
And so that's what we're doing
in this series and we'll be
continuing to do it in this series.
but.
Just so you guys know, as this, as
I'm continuing to, to speak to this
from a spiritual standpoint  I'll
continue to encourage you  to, to seek.
Outside council and the fact of, we do
have a holistic effort of addressing our
mental issues from anxiety to stress, to,
to  burnout, to depression, and that we
can invite professionals in to help us.
And so I don't ever wanna say
that  if you just give it to God,
it's the only way you can do it.
I believe God's created people in our
community that are gifted in helping
walk through these things as well.
And so we should not neglect that as well.
So I'll give the spiritual standpoint.
but I'm also going to encourage you to
seek professional help as well with this.
I was talking to one of our church members
this past week and just encouraging
them about, you know, the series and
talking to 'em a little bit about it and
they said, Hey, thank you so much for
being so honest about your struggles.
And I said, Hey, thanks.
You know, somebody's,
somebody's gotta start it.
And that's the way I've looked at it
as whenever I'm sharing with you today.
and what I'm continuing to share
with you in our series is  if,
if, if we're going to get real.
About life.
And this is what I say, not only our
mental struggles, but just how we're
dealing with our struggles in life.
If we're gonna get real, it
needs to start somewhere.
And I believe it starts with leadership.
and I believe it starts here.
And so as I share, I share not for
my benefit, but hopefully for your
benefit to know that you're not
alone or your friends that have deal
with these things are not alone.
Whatever you struggle with,
that you're not alone.
And this is a safe place.
A safe place to be real, to seek the
Lord and to be broken, but then to
know that the Lord is present in the
midst of  what we're walking through.
and so today we're gonna be
discussing two truths to remember
when we battle depression.
and so you kind of know depression
is a common and yet serious medical
condition that negatively affects
how you feel, the way you think.
And how you act.
and when we think about depression, it
causes feelings of sadness and or loss of
interest and activities you once enjoyed.
It can lead to a variety of emotional
and physical problems that can
decrease your ability to function
even at work or possibly at home.
And here's what I know.
If you're sitting in this room, and this
is the group I wanna talk to real quick.
If you're sitting in this room
and you're going, but what if
I don't deal with depression?
How does this sermon series apply to me?
Number one.
depression does not discriminate.
And what I mean by that is just
because you don't have it now
means you won't deal with it later.
So this is something you can stick in
your pocket and go, I can learn something
from this if I've never dealt with it.
Number two, you probably have a
friend or a family member that
has walked through depression.
This will be valuable for you to counsel
them, to listen to them and be a friend.
I, I'm, and so that's the group I wanna
talk to because I think it'd be easy
for a message series like this to go.
Well, what if I don't struggle with it?
Well, I'm hoping that you can
take something home from it.
So I've had people say this
before, whenever I have struggled
with depression or anxiety
is  you just need to get over it.
You just need to suck it up.
you know, you just need to get better.
you should just pray harder.
There was somebody that I was talking to
you the other day  it was actually my aunt
who's actually dying from cancer and she
has a great perspective at life right now.
She's dying from cancer and she said,
I've actually had some hurtful Christians.
Come up to me and said, you know,
if you wanted to be healed, you're
just not praying hard enough.
You don't have enough faith.
And she said, you know, that hurts.
She's like, but I'm praying.
And God's choosing to
do something different.
And she said, you know what?
He's doing something different.
He's allowing me to impact people's lives.
So what I would say with that is at
times we don't have those good Christian
friends that say the right things.
And you know what you do,
you should give them grace.
because we, they don't understand.
Right?
And I would say this, whenever somebody
says, just suck it up or get better.
I'll, I'll just give you
from personal experience.
We wish we could, I'll say that again.
We wish we could.
I remember sitting down with my wife a
couple of years ago when I was wrestling
with depression and she just didn't
quite understand it and I love my wife,
and so we finally decided to sit down
and I had to begin to explain to her
that I didn't know how to overcome this.
And as we begin to talk, there was
freedom in, in inviting her into the
process of what I was walking through.
And she has been one of the greatest
supporters in the midst of the things
that I've dealt with  because now she
understands what I'm walking through.
and I'm so thankful for that.
And so, Again, it's hard to
share and be open when we worry
about what people will say to us.
You know, it's interesting in our
world where we'll say if somebody
has a sore throat, go to the doctor.
You have a broken foot, go, go get it.
You know, set and, and put a cast on it.
But when we have depression, it's like,
ah, you should disfigure that out.
and again, I think we're
getting better as a society.
We're getting better as a
church  to say, Hey, we need
to seek counsel and seek help.
and so as we've struggled.
As I personally struggle through this,
I've been the one that's typically been
the one that says I need to get over it.
Usually I'm my own worst enemy.
but I wanna share with you this before
we kind of really jump in, is finally,
I came to a point in my walk with
depression a couple of years ago where
it was like, if I don't do something
about this, Something's gonna end wrong.
And I just had to come to the conclusion
that I needed help, and I would think
that was the hardest thing when it comes
to mental health, is to actually make
the statement out loud to somebody else.
I need help.
So I sought counsel.
I actually went to
counseling for a season.
and just so you guys know, when was this?
This was during planting a church.
Hey  pastors doster with depression
in the midst of planting a
church, it happens, right?
I, I sought mentors.
I have a couple of  men
that are in my life that.
That meet with me monthly and
they ask how I'm doing it.
And the craziest thing is, guys, I'm in
the middle of writing this message and I
get a text message from one of those guys
that says, Hey, I'm praying for you that
you're mentally strong, that that God is
speaking to you, that he's encouraging you
where you are, even if you're struggling.
And I'm just like, see, this is why
I invited these people into my life.
Just so you know, even some
of the most basic things, you
know what I started doing?
I started eating a little bit differently.
I started getting a little bit
more sleep because sometimes.
That's what we need.
I remember feeling so guilty
being so run down in the middle
of the day to take a nap.
I felt so guilty.
And you know what?
My wife said, well just take a nap.
And when I would do that, it would help.
And those are some of the small
things that we can look at and see.
but I'm hoping that you'll be
encouraged from the word of God today.
And I really wanna start
with this verse here.
It may not be encouraging to you,
and at times it can be discouraging,
but I'm hoping by the end of the
day day you'll be encouraged.
So Proverbs 1225 says this, anxiety
in the heart of man causes depression,
but a good word makes it glad.
And you may say, is it really that simple?
Hmm, maybe not.
But what I would say is consistent.
Good word.
A consistent good word, which means
as you speak God's truths over your
life, as you speak, the things that are
saying, okay, I can get through this,
through help and inviting people in.
Yes, a good word can.
Make you glad.
It is that simple over time.
And so my hope and prayer
today is, it is a good word.
And so we're gonna talk about
again, those two truths.
So remember when battling depression.
So let's pray as we jump in.
Lord Jesus, only you can
move in our hearts and lives.
And Lord, I know today  I am not
speaking out of   strength in the fact
of though I've got this all figured out.
Lord, I'm really speaking out of weakness.
and Lord, I'm reminded that you do great
and mighty things through weakness.
So, Lord, may I be weak today so that you
can be strong and that you can speak to
the hearts of those in this room and that
you can minister them right where they
are, Lord, whether they're dealing with
depression right now, whether they're
dealing with anxiety or worry or burnout
or whatever it is, Lord, maybe if they're
not dealing with it and they do it in the
future, Lord, will you give them a word
today to clinging to a word today that
can be encouraging And remind them, Lord
of your love and your truth, and remind
them that the are, they are not alone.
So, Lord, I just pray that you
move, like only you can move and
we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So, so we look at depression, it
can come across as  a complex issue.
And so again, I wanna make sure,
please don't look and say, well  I've
got it all figured out cuz I don't.
And so I wanna give you what I do know.
And I pray that that
helps you take next steps.
I really wanna say that again.
I wanna do everything I can to
help you where you are, but knowing
that I'm not the end result of
professionalism on depression.
and so this is here to
help and, and to guide us.
and so there's a couple of
root causes to depression.
I wanna talk about them just so
we kind of all know, or that is,
experts say that they start with.
Could be biological.
And so I wanna give some examples.
So depression could come from
just a chemical imbalance in
our bodies or in our brains.
Some of that could be  when we're
talking about  hormonal changes.
I know that sounds really
funny, but a lot of women go
through  postpartum depression.
I remember Britney dealt
with that at times.
And a lot of times we don't know
why we're crying or why we're going
through what we're going through.
And so that could be an issue.
Some of it could be nutritional or sleep.
Some of it could be passed down
from your biological makeup.
Some of it could be relational,
and so this could be this, you're
having struggles in your marriage.
Maybe you just had a divorce.
Maybe you're having a wayward child
that has run away from the faith or
is not around the family anymore.
It could be isolation.
Again, we came out of a season
of Covid where a lot of us
experienced isolation, so you could
have had depression during them.
It's also could be circumstantial.
Would say this, a death of a loved
one could have led you to depression.
something that you've gone through
trauma, and again, it could be
abuse, it could be something in
the past that you've dealt with.
It could also just be that your
last child left the house and you're
dealing with the empty nesting feeling.
I'm, I'm telling you, my wife's gonna go
through that because she loves her kids.
The moment the last child's
out, it's gonna be difficult.
For some of you, it
could just be spiritual.
And this is what we wanna recognize, and
we wanna remember that the word of God
says this, that we do not battle against
flesh and blood, but we have a very real
spiritual battle against the enemy that is
the forces of darkness that wants to still
kill and destroy everything that matters
to you and everything that matters to God.
And I wanna start just
right there for a second.
Do you know that you matter to God
more than anything else in this world?
You matter to God more than
anything else in the world.
So when we talk about having an enemy
that's spiritually attacking us, he's
his goal is to spiritually attack
you because we are his greatest love.
And so knowing that may not be comforting
to you, but if we know that these are some
of the reasons why we have depression,
and what I would say is it's okay.
And the reason why it's okay is all
these situations are outta our control.
The majority of the time,
they're out of our control.
We don't know what to do.
But God is still present in
the midst of our circumstances.
And we're gonna talk about
somebody that's gonna hopefully
relate to you in the word of God.
But I wanna remind you again,
depression does not discriminate.
Everyone's susceptible to it,
but one, there's not a one size
fits all on how we address it.
And so I, I just want you to know that.
So as we address this  from a
spiritual standpoint, I want you
to hear about a guy named Jeremiah.
Most believe Jeremiah
is a part of this story.
So we're gonna be in
Lamentations chapter three.
If you've ever read the book of
Lamentations, raise your hand.
Yeah.
See, not a lot of people read limitations,
and so it's not as bad as, you know,
Leviticus or numbers, but it's one of
those that people don't typically go
into because it's a book of lament.
and really it's, it's kind
of sad  as we read it.
And so most believe in this book that
Jeremiah is the, the one that is talking
about this story, and he has an Old
Testament prophet  that was depressed.
That he  spoke on the
behalf of God, right?
He spoke to the people of Israel, God's
people, and he spoke the, the, the
coming prophecies that were gonna happen.
And here's what had just got
done happening for Jeremiah.
So Jeremiah being a prophet, in the time
when the people of Israel, these are
God's people were exiled, which they
were kicked out of their land, people
came in, conquered them and exiled them.
So Jeremiah saw a couple
of different things.
Number one, Jeremiah saw
his family and his friends.
Killed and exiled from their land.
Jeremiah got to see in this standpoint
also the temple of God, which most
of us may not fully understand
because if we look at it, if we
think of a temple of God today,
we're thinking we're in the Y M C A.
This is the closest thing we got
as a church to the temple of God.
it may not mean much to you if somehow
this got destroyed, but for the people
of Israel and for Jeremiah, their
temple was known as that's where the
presence of God was and it was destroyed.
So Jeremiah watching all these things,
Begins to be depressed and, and he
has a reason why when we think about
this, this is probably trauma for him.
And this is a man of God, right?
A man of God.
And as he's going through this, he
has a moment where he's without hope.
And so if you've ever battled with
depression, I hope this encouraged
you to know you're not alone.
Even a man of God in the
Word of God was broken.
And so let's read this together.
We're gonna read verses one through
eight, and then we're gonna jump
to 17 through 20 after that.
And so again, Lamentations chapter
three, it'll be up on the screen as well.
It says this, I am a man who has seen
affliction under the rod of God's wrath.
He has driven me away and forced me
to walk in darkness instead of light.
Yes, he repeatedly turns his
hand against me all the day long.
He has worn away my flesh in my skin.
He has broken my bones.
He has laid siege against me in circling
me with bitterness and hardship.
He has made me dwell in darkness like
those who have been dead for ages.
He has walled me in and
so I cannot get out.
He has weighed me down with chains
even when I cry out and plead for help.
He blocks up my prayer.
Then we're gonna move down to 17.
And he says this, I have
been deprived of peace.
I have forgotten what prosperity is.
And then I thought my future is lost,
as well as my hope from the Lord.
Remember, my affliction in my
homelessness, the wormwood and the poison.
I continually remember them
and I have become depressed.
So you're like, ah, man.
Did I come to service today to just
leave out depressed and discourage?
My hope is, That when we see that a
man of God who was being used by God,
God's presence was near him, even
though he felt like the Lord was doing
all these things, there's a hope on
the other side that we'll get to.
But I want us to start with
this first statement here, and
I think this is so important.
Number one, your emotions are
valid, but they're not permanent.
Permanent.
Your emotions are valid, but
they're not permanent, and why
is it important to know that?
and I, I'll just go to a quick example
because it's gonna really relate with you.
Those who've had kids,
anybody ever watch Frozen?
I know we're going outside the Bible here.
What does she say?
Conceal don't fill.
She tried to claim her emotions
were not real and it destroyed her.
And I know this is not in the Bible,
but I'm telling you that's a real word.
if you're a family that has kids,
knows that movie, You get it.
But when she did begin to recognize
she was different and she began to
speak about it in a little bit, did
you see how it changed her life?
And I know we're talking about a cartoon
character, but guys, I'm, I'm trying
to relate with you because sometimes
we look at the prophet of God and we're
going, eh, I can't really relate to him.
And this is a cartoon.
Maybe you can't relate to her.
I don't get it.
But they, they mirrored this after
somebody who would probably be
dealing with depression and anxiety
and stress over her situations.
And it was real whenever she began to
address it and get open and own it.
I, I, I'm telling you,
our emotions are valid.
But they're not permanent.
I remember my pastor telling
me me this all the time.
He says, and it has come to pass.
He says, it's this word that
you'll see in the Bible, and it
came to pass and it came to pass.
Meaning this, what situation
we're going through right now
is not our permanent situation.
It will one day come to pass, and
most of us, when we begin to look
at life, we're either going into a
storm, we're in the midst of a storm,
or we're coming out of a storm.
It's reality.
And it's those moments where recently
I remember telling my wife, I feel
like we're coming out of a storm.
I said, Lord, please keep it away.
Please keep it away.
And yesterday I woke up
with a crick of my neck.
My car broke down and our house,
our roofs leaking this morning.
I'm like, okay, it's back.
it's back.
and it's those moments like,
okay, Lord, what are you doing?
Right?
And, and so we'll get to that, but.
I'm telling you, like understanding
that it's not permanent is so important.
So our emotions, again, they're valid.
Just like Jeremiah's emotions to the Lord.
He was honest, like I felt
like you've left me, Lord.
Like if you abandoned me, your
wraths been poured outta me.
Like this is horrible.
Jeremiah was honest before the Lord.
And I tell you, just from a personal
experience, I want to continue
to give my personal experience
because of battle with depression.
The moment I sat down with my wife and
begin to explain my emotions and why I
felt the way I felt and how I felt like
I couldn't change anything, it changed
the way we addressed those emotions.
It changed it as a family because I was
realizing that it was okay to feel that
way, that I didn't need to beat myself up.
It wasn't my fault.
And it's okay to not be okay.
You need to hear that today.
Somebody needs to hear that out today.
It is okay not to be okay.
This is a safe place to not be.
Okay.
This church, I believe God planted
this church in this city to be a
place where it's okay to not be okay.
And maybe it's not depression.
Maybe it's a marriage struggle.
Maybe it's a wayward, a child.
Maybe it's anxiety.
Maybe it's the pressures of life.
Maybe it's work.
I don't know what you're dealing with,
but it is safe to not be okay here.
But here's the good news.
It's not permanent.
There's people all over this place
that are coming outta the storms.
God's doing something cool in their
life and they've came out of that major.
There's some people that are right in
the midst of them, and it may be you.
There's some of you.
You're heading into 'em.
That was me yesterday.
I'm heading into 'em and I'm like,
okay, I know the word of God.
I know what God's done for these people.
I know that my emotions are
valid, but they're not permanent.
It, this too shall come to pass.
And for me, it's so freeing.
So freeing to be real in my emotions.
It's so freeing to not suppress them
and claim that I should just suck it up.
It's so freeing for me, and I
believe that's what God is saying
even to Jeremiah, be real with me.
It's okay to be real.
This is what you're going through, and
here's what we realize when we think
about sharing these things and being real
experts will tell us that this is one of
the greatest ways to heal as we change
our emotions and as we begin to overcome
depression, it starts by acknowledging
our emotions and naming them.
Acknowledging our emotions
and naming them, and that's
just what Jeremiah did, right?
As we look over some of his story, right?
He says, basically, when you begin
to think about how he describes
this, he says, I, I basically feel
like my flesh has been worn away,
and my skin and my bones are broken.
He, he says, you know, I, I'm
in circle with bitterness.
At the end, we see here,
he says, I'm depressed.
So maybe for you, when we think
about acknowledging everybody,
say, acknowledge with me.
Just say Acknowledge.
Acknowledge.
Just acknowledge.
What you're going through.
Maybe this is what you're gonna say.
I'm feeling hopeless.
I'm feeling angry.
I'm hurt.
Right?
I'm mad at God.
Tell 'em I've done it.
I haven't been smited yet.
Okay.
Don't, don't wait for that though.
Don't wait for that.
maybe you say, I'm
depressed and I'm lonely.
Maybe you say this and
I remember those days.
I feel numb.
Right?
Whatever it is, begin
to name those things.
Not only in your head, but out loud.
Share it with someone,
write it in a journal.
Tell a friend or a spouse, right?
And I want you to begin to think
about those things now because as we
go into invitation later, I want you
to lay them down at, at Jesus's feet.
I want you to begin to
think about 'em now.
Begin to name those emotions, and today
we're gonna lay them outta Jesus' feet.
So those of you that are
dealing with depression, This
is something that we need to do.
Those of you that don't
deal with oppression, let me
encourage you, be a friend.
Listen without judgment.
Here's another encouragement.
I'm telling you.
Society  I think it was last week,
we said  there was a statistic done
in 2019 that three out of four people
dealt with anxiety pre pandemic.
That number's only gone up.
So odds are that's just anxiety.
Anxiety leads to
depression at times, right?
odds are if you are in a room with more
than one person, you, and you don't
deal with depression, odds are there's
one person in that room that does my
encouragement for you is look for a
person whose posture is low, whose head
is down, who begins to be quiet and
just ask, Hey, how can I pray for you?
What's going on in life?
This is a safe place without
judgment, maybe you can be the person
that allows them to be free, like
Jeremiah's gonna see here as he's
freeing from sharing his struggles.
So I wanna give you a practical
example that's really cool
that kind of backs this up.
anybody in here afraid of spiders?
Okay, there's a couple of y'all.
When I started reading this
example, if it would've said
snakes, I would've been that person.
Here's the thing, truth be told,
if there's a snake in my home,
guarantee I'm gonna burn it down.
You think I'm kidding?
I'll call insurance and
say it's their fault.
I mean, it's, I don't know.
I would burn it down.
So spiders and.
But snakes, that's me.
For some of you though,
that could be spiders.
So they did a, a study, four groups
with four different things that they
had them address with this study.
So what that is, they took this tarantula,
they put it in a cage, and they had
people come in and they had four different
groups do four different things, right?
So this tarantulas in a cage.
They walk in, let tell you
what the first group does, all
the way down the fourth group.
So the first group's gonna come in,
they're gonna see this tarula in the cage.
They're afraid of spiders.
By the way, every one of 'em.
And they're just gonna begin to
speak out loud what they're feeling.
They're gonna be labeling.
This thing scares me.
I feel like they're crawling all over me.
Like they're just gonna name their
feelings as they see the spider.
These groups are just gonna come
in and do this one after another.
Then the second group, this is what
they said, I want you to come in
and I want you to make observations,
which means you know, the trenchless
in a cage, or, Hey, it's big.
The next group, they had come in and
they said, say something irrelevant,
which I think this one's a funny one.
So they walked in,
they're like, it's cold.
I like the color blue.
Right?
They just begin to name the
odd, weird, irrelevant things.
And the last group they
said, don't say anything.
Just go in, look at the Tula
in the cage and walk away.
They did that.
A week later, they bring
the same group back.
Then they begin to monitor some of their
expressions, their body temperature,
all these different things, whether
they peed themselves when they walked
in the room, because this time the
tarantula was outside the cage...
not going in there.
What they found is those who were in
group one that had labeled their fillings
actually had less anxiety and was actually
some of them were able to pet the tarula.
Because they had began to name their
feelings, but those who never made and
named their feelings, they began to find
that those are the ones that struggled
the most with that spider being out.
And that's not a spider's strange.
I know.
Anyways, this is just, and we're talking
about, again, I wanna give you biblical
examples, but I want you to also
see this, that naming your feelings.
It's part of science
Experts have studied this.
It is so important for us to be open
and honest and out loud about our
emotions and our feelings to label them.
To label them again, your feelings.
They're valid.
They're valid, but they're not permanent.
And I think when we act like our
emotions don't matter, we'll never
address the reality of our situation.
I, I'm giving you this also from.
Just my personal experience, I was
not able to begin to overcome my
depression until I begin to name them.
That's what, that's what my counselor did.
He says, okay, I want you to write
down why you're going through this.
Like what is your emotions?
He had me, I'm gonna share
something with you later.
He had me write the
beginning of my counseling.
You know what he had me do?
He says, in eight weeks, I want you
to write down if this was successful,
what would your life look like?
And I'm like, really?
Okay.
And I did.
And we got to the eight weeks and
I pulled it up and I'm like, wow.
I'm experiencing this now.
I can't wait to share
some of that with you.
So again, when we think about
how important it is to express
our emotions, it, it's important.
But I really, I want to draw
you in quickly about this, and
this is why it's so important to
understand that our emotions are
valid, but they're not permanent
because our emotions are temporary.
It's important to remember we aren't
going to make permanent decisions
based upon temporary emotions.
I'm gonna say this again because
our emotions are temporary.
We're not going to make permanent
decisions based upon temporary emotions.
It's so important for us to feel this
way and to understand this, so when
we're feeling depressed, We can't make
these permanent life altering decisions.
And here's the reason why I wanna share
something with you, and this is why I look
at the stories that God brings to my life.
So, in the middle of going through some
of this depression, I began to follow this
pastor on a podcast and he began to  share
about how he had dealt with depression.
He had left a  a jah.
He was actually fired from a pastoral
position because of some sin in
his life, and he had battled with
depression, and he began to overcome it.
He began to teach other pastors
about how to overcome depression.
And he was talking on this podcast,
and so I was drawn in, cause
I'm just listening to this guy.
I was drawn in.
Not long after that, I jumped on
the podcast and he wasn't on there
anymore and his friend came on and his
friend says, Hey, just recently we've
lost our friend who was out on a gun
range and decided to take his life.
A pastor took his own life after
he had claimed that he had been
dealing with oppression and he'd been
teaching people how to overcome it.
If that doesn't stop you in
your tracks, it did for me.
It stopped me in my tracks, our emotions.
Are temporary, but we cannot make
permanent decisions with our emotions.
If that don't get real for
you, it got real for me.
And that is part of why I
think it's so important.
Don't let the enemy deceive you to
stay where you're at, to not talk to
anybody, to not invite professionals
in or to let your church family
in or your, or your spouse in on
what you're wrestling through.
We're talking about life here.
Life.
Don't forget how important that is.
So again, don't make
those permanent decisions.
What other permanent
decisions could we do?
Right?
Just because your spouse
disappoints you doesn't mean
you need to go make a permanent
decision of cheating or divorcing.
That is a hard thing because sometimes
our spouses are the most difficult.
I get it.
Marriage is hard, but don't
make the permanent decision.
That could obviously affect that abuse.
If you're in the middle of
and you're angry, walk away.
Walk away.
Don't do it again.
Don't take your life if that's what it is.
And if that's ever crossed your mind,
please, I'm begging you right now.
Tell someone, talk to a counselor.
Be willing to ask for help.
It's not worth that long-term decision.
So also I want to challenge you with this.
This is another one.
Draw back in.
Okay.
Also, we're not gonna make
permanent conclusions.
Let me just give you another example.
Well, because my husband or my wife
cheated on me, everybody will cheat on me.
I'm never gonna trust
another person again.
Let me just give you another one
that's even gonna relate to you.
If you have been a part of a church
that has had some bad experiences,
anybody been a part of a church
that has some bad experiences?
Anybody?
Okay, good.
We got a lot of hands going up here.
Sometimes they do things that really
frustrates you, really disappoint you.
And then what's gonna happen and what
maybe has happened to you before is
you now view every church as that way
that church is gonna be a church that
always, I can't trust them anymore,
and you'll never attend a church again.
I know you're here, so praise God.
If that was you, I'm so glad you're here.
But know that we do not make permanent
conclusions based upon temporary emotions
either, because I'll say this, you'll miss
on experiencing some of the most amazing
things that God has for you, some of the
most amazing things that God has for you.
Yes, it may take time, and I'm not
asking you to fully trust because at
times that will break you again, but
what I mean is we need to continue to
take steps to get past that, right?
So in your darkest of times, maybe
you felt giving up, but that's exactly
again, where the enemy wants you.
But I want you to know this, God
did not make you as a mistake.
He had a purpose for you.
And you know what keeps me going?
And this is crazy for you.
My family obviously keeps me going,
but there's someone, there's someone
waiting on me to address my emotional
struggles, my mental struggles.
Because if I will, and I'll be open about
it, it may impact one other person's life.
That's what keeps me going.
Knowing that being real up here with
you all may seem embarrassing at times.
I know it's valuable for one person.
I hope it's valuable for one person, and
the rest of y'all that wanna judge me, I
don't care because I care about that one
person that may walk outta here and choose
not to make that permanent decision.
May choose to begin to get
help and talk to someone.
That's the church that I wanna lead.
That's a church I wanna be a part of with
so many of you that I know has already
done that and will continue to do that.
So I wanna move on, right?
We're not ruled or controlled
by these emotions, right?
We can feel them.
We can obviously understand that.
But here's the last statement.
Our situation may feel hopeless,
right, and may feel hopeless, but
with God, there is always hope.
What happened, Jeremiah,
I, I wanna go on now.
What happened to Jeremiah?
He began to be real.
He addressed his emotions, he
explained it and told the Lord
he was honest before the Lord.
And let's look at verses 21 through 23.
In Lamentations three, it says this,
yet I, so let's look at verse 20.
So he says, I continually remember them.
All these things, my emotions, and I have
become depressed, yet I call to mind.
And therefore, I have hope
because the Lord's faithful love.
We do not perish for
his mercies never end.
They are new every morning.
Great.
Is your faithfulness great?
Is your faithfulness.
Although he was depressed, he remembered
God's faithfulness in the past.
Now here's, I wanna, I
wanna share this with you.
Jeremiah had seen the Lord move in his
life in mighty and miraculous ways,
and Jeremiah also was a prophet and
understood God would eventually bring his
people back from exile to restore them.
That God would eventually send a Messiah
to say the whole world from their sins.
Jeremiah knew these things and so what
did he did in the midst of his emotions?
He called them out.
He, he named them, but then yet he
remembered the Lord's faithfulness.
You may wonder, has the Lord
ever done anything for me?
You may wonder that, and I've
been there, and if that's
you, here's my encouragement.
I hope the Spirit of God begins to
work in your life and remind you.
God has done so many amazing things.
He's given you life.
He's given you a family.
He's provided you to this point.
He's given you the opportunity to get
around, hopefully, a community of people
that loves you despite your floss.
And I'm so thankful I've got a people
that love me despite mine, okay?
I, God has in so many mainy things
for you, but if you can't name one,
you know what I encourage you to do?
Clean to the promises of God, of what
he has provided for those before.
And as you begin to do that,
I promise you, you'll begin to
experience God's faithfulness.
In the days to come.
I've seen it.
I've seen it, and I experienced it.
And he says this, I love this, he says,
and they are new every morning, right?
His mercies never end.
They are new every morning, and I
just wanna encourage you with this.
Sometimes we just need sleep.
Sometimes we literally just need
to take a day off and sleep.
His mercies are new every morning.
In the midst of our emotions.
I, I'm telling you, me and Brittany
have had some conversations and I just
tell her I need to go to sleep and the
next day my perspective is changed.
Do you know sleep is rest, which rest is
pausing, pausing his trust in the Lord
and is putting it back in his hands.
So many times we miss how
spiritual sleep is, right?
So his mercies are new every
single day, but he talks about
the Lord's great love, right?
The Lord's great love.
And when we think about what the
Lord's great love is translated
in this, it's unbreakable devotion
of God's promises, unbreakable
devotion of God's promises, right?
And this is what God's saying.
He will never leave you nor forsake you.
Even in your darkest moments,
God will come through for you.
With God there is always hope.
It may not feel like it.
But there is hope every single day.
So what do we do when we depressed?
We acknowledge what we're struggling with.
We name it.
We say, I'm depressed.
I'm feeling darkness.
I feel hopeless.
We also acknowledge that we need help.
Asking for help is not a sign of weakness.
It's a sign of strength.
It's a sign of wisdom, and I
believe that it starts with
remembering God's faithfulness.
And then it starts with
inviting people in.
Maybe it's a doctor.
Maybe it's adding medicine into your life.
Maybe it's a diet changer.
Some more sleep.
Maybe just maybe, here's a plug.
You need to get a part of a
inspire group at our church.
What are inspire groups?
We have one on Sunday nights.
We have one on Wednesday nights,
one in Westchester, one in Hamilton.
What do we do?
We do life together.
We get in a room, we
laugh, we pray together.
We get in the word of God.
We encourage one another.
We sometimes eat some good food, right?
Getting community with one another.
Maybe that's where part of
the healing process will be.
You might start praying,
pausing, and praising.
We did this two weeks ago with anxiety.
When we have anxiety come into
our lives, I'm telling you
guys, I did this yesterday.
I stopped and I prayed and I paused
and I praised knowing God was going to
redeem whatever we're going through.
We have to continue to seek Lord in this.
So what happens when we do these things?
Are you miraculously healed?
Maybe.
Is it a process?
Probably right?
Probably.
but I, I'm, I'm reminded of
this, that small steps taken over
time will produce big results.
Small steps taken over time
will produce big results.
I'm challenged by that thought.
I've shared this analogy with you before.
When you think about karate and
what's the difference between a
black belt and a white belt, Yeah.
There you go.
Color.
That's Amanda.
Thanks, Amanda.
You'll run that one.
No, it's a white belt who didn't give up.
They were consistent.
You don't get a white belt overnight
and you're not gonna get it in a year.
You're gonna get it over.
Consistency every day.
Understand his mercies are new.
And taking one small step.
And this is what I love this picture.
What's the difference between a white
belt and someone who doesn't have it?
Someone started for some of y'all.
I'm just telling you, I've been
there because I kept thinking
I'm depressed, I'm anxious.
Nothing's ever gonna change.
And you know what?
Every day that I thought that
way, nothing ever changed.
Yeah, nothing ever changed.
But then there was a time I
made a decision, I'm gonna
acknowledge it, and I took a step.
I'm gonna invite some mentors
in, and I took a step.
I'm gonna call a counselor
and I took a step.
I'm gonna put a plan together.
I'm gonna take a step.
I'm gonna start being real with
some of my closest friends.
I'm gonna take a step, and over
time I've learned to cope with some
depression that I've had in my life.
Perfect.
No, guys.
I'm telling you, it's a constant battle.
It really is.
Because there's always a roof leak or a
car breakdown or arick neck that's gonna
show up, that's gonna say, Hey, no, you
need to be down and out for that one.
You need to be down and out for that one.
You don't need to trust the Lord for that
one, and every time you're gonna go, Nope.
I'm gonna acknowledge.
I'm gonna recognize God has done
it before and he will do it again.
I loved praising today.
Thank you, Matt, for leading us worship.
I loved praising today
because he has the same God.
He has the same God.
Oh man, I need to hear that today.
He's the same God for you as he
was for me as he was for Jeremiah.
Let's read the last couple of verses here.
Lamentations 3 24 through 26.
Here's what it says.
I say, the Lord is my portion.
Therefore, I will put my hope
in him, not his circumstances.
I wanna say this again.
It is in Jesus we put our hope.
The Lord is good to those who wait
for him, to the person who seeks him.
It is good to wait quietly
for salvation from the Lord.
Amen.
Now, does it seem that simple?
Because at the beginning,
remember the verse I read to you?
Anxiety in the heart of man causes
depression, but a good word makes it glad.
Maybe, maybe for you, there's a good word
that we're learning today from Jeremiah's
story, A man after God, and he literally
spoke the words of God and he began to.
Being struggle, but he began to remember
and he really began to praise and know
that the Lord was going to be faithful.
I'm praying today was a good word for
you for, for wherever you are, for maybe
your friend that you're gonna go talk to.
Maybe this word was for them.
Maybe it's for you.
Take it home.
Save it because it may be for you in
a year or in two years when you're
going through one of those behavioral
or situational or just whatever it
is that's causing the depression.
So how are we gonna fight our battles?
I'm just gonna remind you,
prayer is so important.
How do we fight our battles?
You know how our church fought the
battles that I just shared with
you earlier, the crick neck, the
broken down car, and the roof leak?
They dragged me.
I know this sounds funny.
I was up studying the message.
They dragged me into a circle.
They put their hands on me
and they prayed over me.
That's how we fight our battles.
Am I healed right now?
My neck's still pretty sore.
My car may overheat when I drive
home, and I still gotta get
the roof fix when I get home.
But I'll just tell you this, I'm
so thankful for them because on
the other side of their prayer
was a breath of fresh wind.
God is good.
God has given us a good word.
God has given us a good community of
people to remind us that he is good.
So, That's what we're
gonna do in invitation.
So as we start invitation, I
always explain this, what is
the purpose of invitation?
I'm telling you I've been in churches
just so you know, as a pastor  I
typically would always sit in services
cuz I, I was, you know, saved at one
point late in my life and, and sat
under our services and I'm like, what's
the point of invitation like that?
Just go into this thing and they expect
me to close my eyes and do something.
Anybody ever feel that way?
Like there's music going and I'm
like sitting here going, I guess
that's what everybody else is doing.
I'm gonna.
Okay.
Why do I make fun of that?
It's not, it's not their fault.
It's because we assume everybody
understands what invitation is.
Invitation is an opportunity
to invite you to respond to the
message, to respond to, to Jesus.
And what we mean by this is, is
you could easily hear this message
today and not put on the white belt.
You get what I'm saying?
Does anybody hear what I'm saying here?
You could leave here today and
not put on that white belt.
I don't have a white belt
out here to hand you.
Okay?
Figuratively.
Okay.
But you need to put on a white belt.
That's what invitation is.
Every single week, when I say we're
gonna have invitation, I want you to
think I'm putting on the white belt.
I'm taking what I've heard, and I'm
gonna begin to say, I'm taking one step.
One step.
Do you know that a white belt
is given after just signing up?
You don't e You don't
even have to earn it.
And here's the cool part, it's Kevin.
And you know what signing up means when
we give our lives to Jesus, and this
is where for some of you that's never
given your life to Jesus, if you've never
surrendered your life to Jesus, do you
know that Jesus gives you that white belt?
He gives it to you.
You don't have to earn it.
Jesus has done all the work on the
cross to forgive you of your sins.
And to say you can be brand
new to give your life to him.
So during this time of invitation,
if you need to give your life
to Jesus, you come find me.
I'm gonna be in the back.
During this time, I want
you to just also surrender.
I want you to surrender everything
that you're walking through.
Let's just begin to pray, and then
we're gonna walk through a few things.
Lord Jesus, you are good.
You are God, and we are
not, and we trust you, Lord.
I think many of us in this
room can relate with Jeremiah.
We wonder, Lord, what are you doing?
But Lord, then we remember.
We remember.
So, Lord, I just pray right now
that you're ministering to the
hearts of those in this room.
They're dealing with depression,
anxiety, worry, burnout.
I don't know what it is.
Whatever they're dealing with, Lord.
May you begin to minister to
them as we continue to pray.
Here's what my challenge to you,
those of you that are sitting
there, I'm not asking you to sit
there and wonder what's going on.
I want you right there to begin to
acknowledge your feelings before the
Lord begin to just cast them to the
Lord and say, Lord, I feel depressed.
Say maybe I am exhausted.
Be honest.
Remember, your feelings are valid,
but they're only temporary right now.
I'm just gonna give you a minute.
Just begin to cast those to the
Lord and be honest with him today.
All right, so we're gonna
continue to pray, but this
is now what I want you to do.
Here's my challenge.
Now that you have acknowledged and
been honest before the Lord, here's
what I want you to acknowledge, that
your feelings are not permanent.
I want you to just pray and begin to
acknowledge before the Lord that they're
not permanent and you're asking the
Lord to fight your battle for you.
So right now, say, okay, Lord, everything
I just shared, like they're valid.
They're not permanent, Lord.
And so they're, they're yours.
So just give it over the
Lord and just start handing.
If you can imagine taking
stress in your hand and handing
it to the Lord, do it now.
Maybe you take anger, you have it
in your hand, and you hand it to the
Lord and you say, Lord, it's yours.
Whatever it is, hand it to him.
It's not yours to fight.
It's his.
He's already won the battle.
Give it to him.
And the last thing, as we continue
to pray, those of you that have
heard me share that maybe your next
step is to give your life to Jesus.
Here is my challenge today that
you don't leave today before
surrendering your life to Jesus.
See, Jeremiah had a hope in God
because he had a relationship with God.
Every one of us can have a hope in God
if we have a relationship with Jesus,
but if you walked in here without that
relationship, you can walk out with it.
So here's my challenge in just a moment.
If you wanna give your life to
Jesus, I just want you to be bold.
I am telling you we need to be
more bold in the days ahead.
We need to stop just and realize
that God wants to see our boldness.
And so right now, if you're in this
room and you wanna give your life to
Jesus, my challenge to you right now
is to raise your hand so we can pray
with you and encourage you in your
faith if you need to give your life
to Jesus, to just raise your hand
and say, I need Jesus to surrender
my life to be forgiven of my sins.
All right.
This is a reminder of me.
Thank you for raising your hand.
There is people in this room that are
ready to give their lives to Jesus,
and I don't want us to pray alone.
So we're gonna pray together.
Those of who, who want to give your
life to Jesus, just repeat with me
and I want everybody to repeat me.
You don't pray alone.
So Lord Jesus, forgive me
of my sins, change my life.
Go with me.
Fight my battles, change my life.
God, we believe in you.
And we trust you.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Let's celebrate with
God is changing lives.
And I pray today as we continue
to worship, as we continue
to worship, don't hold back.
Begin to praise God for
what he's going to do.
Remember what we did
a couple of weeks ago?
We prayed.
We've done that this morning.
We've paused.
I hope you've paused and
reflected that God can work.
Now.
Praise, even if the battle's not one.
I want you to continue today to praise.
If anybody needs some prayer,
I'm gonna be over in the corner
during the time of invitation, so
let's stand and worship together.